# breast_cancer
## performace evaluation of classification algorithms for diagnosis of breast cancer

Early breast cancer diagnosis and the ability to discriminate malignant breast lesions from benign ones and accurately predicting the risk of breast cancer for individual patients are critical in successful clinical decision-making. Various techniques are being used to detect cancer at an early stage. 
The major challenge in cancer diagnosis is the number of patients who are incorrectly diagnosed and thus increasing mortality and where non sick patients are wrongly recommended for treatment and undergo unnecessary treatment and face risky side effects. Investigations show us these surgical interventions are done while there is no need in the range of 65% and 80% patients (Elter M., 2007). In addition, these interventions cause side effects in patients and specialists and its very expensive in terms of cost and irreversible damage to the body like breast removal. Solutions like expert diagnostic systems have been developed and still the accuracy of prediction is still not good enough. Also, machine learning technologies have also been adopted in some cases have seen improvements and they are one of the popular learning methods used in cancer diagnosis and can dramatically improve the level of diagnosis in breast up to 97 % accuracy (Animesh, 2016).
However, there exist a gap between having these tools which are indeed many and the knowledge of which appropriate tools to use in a particular context and implementation of machine learning to achieve optimal results requires precise and expert analysis on which model to employ on which data. Different algorithms perform differently on individual data sets for a given problem and this calls for an evaluation to determine which model or algorithm best suit the provided dataset and hence a better solution for the problem in terms of accuracy. 
The researcher therefore intends to evaluate the performance of some classification models including k-NN, Logistic Regression, Decision Trees, Random Forests and Support Vector Machines, on an existing data set and determine a statistically better model for the breast cancer diagnosis problem. Simulation and experimentation-based on R programming shall be implemented to perform basic data mining processes, model comparison, validation and optimization. The optimized chosen model can be recommended to replace or complement the human effort to diagnose and treat the disease prior to it causing noticeable symptoms to women and hence better decision making by the specialist. This will help to improve the accuracy of diagnosis and as well predict a future risk of breast cancer in women.

